Now, let's talk about fallback functions.
Fallback functions are automatically triggered when
the function signature does not match any of
the available functions in a solidity contract.
For example, if you call a function A,
and that function does not exist,
then the fallback function will be triggered automatically.
There can only be one fallback function inside a contract.
Now, fallback functions do not have a name so if you look on this screen,
you will see there is no name,
they're just declared using the keyword function,
followed by an empty set of braces like shell.
Now there are some restrictions for fallback functions.
They cannot accept arguments nor can they return anything.
We cannot have loops in a fallback function,
maximum gas that can be spent inside a function is 2300.
That means of course,
we cannot have any loops.
Now, let's talk about constructor functions,
extremely important to understand.
Now these are automatically called when the contract is initiated.
They can accept arguments and do any kind of initialization that you would like to do.
Solidity does not support constructor overloading,
which means there can only be one constructor so you cannot have
multiple constructors which means it does not support constructor overloading.
Also, I wanted to mention,
that it is not required to have a constructor function.
You can only write if you need one.
The next important thing that you would really
like to understand and you should understand,
are called function modifiers.
Let's talk about function modifiers.
Like the name says,
they modify the way a function behaves.
They can be added to any function to restrict access to that function.
Let me show you how in a next slide.
So, you define a modifier with the keyword modifier,
followed by the name of the modifier.
The modifier can also accept arguments if it needs to.
Then you have a condition.
If the condition is met,
the function can be called or an exception will be thrown using revert.
We will talk about exceptions in one of our future concepts.
Now, it always ends with an underscore and then a semicolon.
If you look on the screen, you see that
the modifier is ending with an underscore and then a semicolon.
Now, in this code on your screen,
we have a modifier called owner only where we are checking
to see if the message.sender is the owner of the contract.
So we want an owner or only an owner to be able to call this function.
Now we can apply this modifier to any function.
On your screen in the function, anyone can call.
We're not applying the modifier so that means anyone can call this function.
But in the function, only owner can call,
we are applying this modifier so that means,
only the owner can call this function,
our device modifier will throw an exception.
Now let's look at a contract that implements
all these kind of different functions that we've just talked about.
Okay, so the first one I wanted to show you a very simple contract,
all it's doing is has a constructor function and the name of
the contract followed by this variable that we're declaring here.
It's a public variable. What we're doing is when we
initiate the contract we're sending it.
So now this function will be called automatically as soon as I deploy the contract.
So that means when I deploy,
I'm going to provide a value,
and that value will be automatically stored inside.
So let's go deploy this and see how that works.
So I'm going to deploy my constructor,
and in fact let's give it a value.
Let's give it a value of 100.
Okay, so we're going to deploy it.
Let's look at what a deployed amount is.
See if you see the amount,
initially we didn't set it.
So now the amount is set to a 100.
So also, in fact we will get to that in our next screen so if
you see I don't have any function called amount, right?
I don't have any function but remember I just taught you,
anytime you have a variable that's declared
public in the storage space you will automatically get a function.
So this function was automatically created for us.
So this function constructor was called
automatically is declared with the keyword constructor.
You can have any arguments that you want to pass
along public and then what you doing whatever
the input is coming automatically gets stored into
our storage variable and then we get a getter function for this.
Let's look another contract that shows a little bit more detail about functions.
So again, pragma line,
contract word, functions, F-U-N is the name of the function.
And then we have two variables here.
If you see, I have not declared them public,
so that means when I initiate this contract,
I'm not going to have any set of functions for this,
getter functions for this.
Then we have a constructor,
so what we're doing is that we are getting
these two inputs and automatically calling our constructor function,
and that means we are storing
these variables whatever that we send in into these variables.
So the owner name is gonna be set to name that comes in,
owner age is going to be set to that age that comes in.
So that's constructor function.
What we're doing is that we're changing.
So if you see function,
name of the function, followed by arguments,
public that means it is going to be visible,
anyone can call this function,
and then we're changing the owner in this.
The constructor was initially setting it up,
and this is changing.
So we're resetting the values of owner name equal to what I provide,
and again, age to what I provide.
Again, I'm not doing anything to this function but I
wanted to show you this function is marked as private.
That means if this function is ever inherited,
or this contract is inherited,
this function will not be visible.
So it's only visible inside this contract and that is how you play the word private.
Pure means this function does not look at an information of the contract.
It does not try to change an information of the contract it's a pure function.
In fact, I'll show you something.
If I delete this,
the compiler gives you a warning saying that the state could be set
to pure just because it knows that there's nothing going on.
So the compiler is pretty good and that it kind of gives you
all these little warnings so you can really write your code nice and proper.
The next function is called get owner info, it's actually retrieving.
So if you see, it's sending information out so I'm getting the name and I'm
setting it to that and I'm returning name and age by whatever it was set initially.
Now, again, I wanted to show you the two ways you can return values, pretty interesting.
So what you can do, you can in fact give it a variable name like we did in this case,
so I said string name uint8,
and all I did is that I set the name to whatever I wanted it to,
age to whatever I want it to,
it will automatically return name and age.
You can do this as one way or you don't have to provide any names here.
So if you see in this case,
I'm not giving any name,
this is when I'll have to use the word return.
So I can say return owner name.
So either you can do it this way, provide the name,
set the values, you don't need to write any return statement.
Or if you're not giving anything here,
you will have to specifically say return this name.
What this function is doing,
it's getting the age.
Again, I wanted to show you this function is not required at all.
Just because that's just the way this function is setup,
so this function is not required at all because we
automatically get getter functions for owner age.
In fact, we have not declared it public but if he hadn't made it public,
we will get a getter function so this would not be required but just to show you.
So again, this is a public function view,
that means it's not changing an information.
It is looking at information so if I try to put it pure,
you'll see it gives me an error. I cannot make it pure.
Okay so it's going to say you cannot look at
information inside the contract if you're making it pure.
So we'll have to change it back to view.
So let's deploy this contract and play around with this.
Let's delete this initial instance of the contract and let's deploy this contract.
I'm going to initially give it some name,
let's give it Udacity,
and then I'm going to give it, was it age?
Okay, let's just say we're 50 years old.
Okay, so let's deploy it.
So I gave it a few get,
now let's go look at our function calls here.
So we had a function that was set get owner info,
so if I call get owner info,
it's going to give me these two values back.
Got it? This is exactly what I said. I could change it.
So let's go change it to one, two,
three, whatever I can think right now,
let's give it another age of 100.
Now I'm going to call set owner info,
okay, so it changed it.
Now if I call get owner info,
it's going to change it to whatever I sent it to.
Or you can always get get owner name,
so we have the name set to one, two , three, four.
So simple function way,
so definitely get comfortable with function calls this way.
These are all the function types that you can return here,
you can write the return statement so simple syntax.
So again, get this code from the GitHub page,
play around with it and really get comfortable with the way functions work in solidity.